---
layout: inner
position: right
title: 'The Political Economy of Industrial Policy'
date: 2024-10-26 00:00:00
categories: development
tags: NLP Classification LLM  Industrial-Policy

featured_image: 'img/posts/PEoIP_preview.png' # source: https://github.com/nathanlane/industrialpolicytextrepo_model/blob/main/data/ML/2_classes/output/coefficient_comparisons/comparison.png
project_link: 'https://www.nber.org/papers/w32507'
button_icon: 'fa-solid fa-book' # TODO
button_text: 'Read Paper'
lead_text: 'Using LLMs to analyze how political forces and state capacity shape industrial policy.' # TODO
---


<h1 style="text-align: center;">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<br>
<div style="text-align: center;">
    <h3><a href="{{ page.project_link }}">Paper</a></h3>
</div>
<br><br>
In our study, **“The Political Economy of Industrial Policy”** we investigate how political dynamics influence the formulation and implementation of industrial policy (IP). By identifying two primary governance constraints—i) the political forces that determine the selection of IPs and ii) the state capacity that affects their execution—we provide a comprehensive framework grounded in modern political economy. We use large language models LLMs to detect and categorize the agents enacting IPs, which allows us to discern patterns and relationships between political influences and state capabilities in shaping IP across various countries.
<br>
<br>
We find that government failure in IP is not an inherent outcome but is more likely when policies exceed a country’s governance capacity. This perspective shifts the narrative from inevitability of failure to one that emphasizes the importance of aligning IPs with existing governance strengths. Consequently, our political economy framework offers policymakers actionable insights to effectively navigate and address governance challenges in IP design and implementation.
<br>
<br>

**My role**: I led the development and management of the LLM code integral to our analysis. This entailed primary responsibility for designing the data pipeline from end-to-end, being responsible for all API usage, and ensuring strict quality control.